---
title: Deprecations for Ember Data v2.x
alias: guides/deprecations/
layout: deprecations
---

## Deprecations Added in Ember Data 2.x

### Deprecations Added in Ember Data 2.3

#### Non-primitive defaultValue for Model Attributes

###### until: 3.0.0
###### id: ds.defaultValue.complex-object

Providing a non-primitive value as a `defaultValue` has been deprecated because
the provided value is shared between all instances of the model. Using a
non-primitive value, such as `defaultValue: []`, can lead to unexpected bugs when
that value is mutated.

If you wish to continue using a non-primitive value as the `defaultValue` for an
attribute, you should provide a function that returns the value:

```javascript
import DS from 'ember-data';

export default DS.Model.extend({
  username: DS.attr('string'),
  createdAt: DS.attr('date', {
    defaultValue() {
      return new Date();
    }
  })
});
```

### Deprecations Added in Ember Data 2.7

#### Global version of DS

###### until: 3.0.0
###### id: ember-data.global-ds

Using the global version of DS is deprecated. Import `DS` or specific modules from `ember-data` where needed.

For example, if you had:

```javascript
/* globals DS */
```

It would be refactored to:

```javascript
import DS from 'ember-data';
```

#### Ember.Date.parse

###### until: 3.0.0
###### id: ds.ember.date.parse-deprecate

`Ember.Date.parse` was created as a [progressive enhancement for ISO
8601](https://github.com/csnover/js-iso8601) support in browsers that do not
support it (Safari 5-, IE 8-, Firefox 3.6-). These browsers versions are no
longer supported by Ember or Ember Data so `Ember.Date.parse` has been
deprecated.

To clear this deprecation you should refactor your application's code to use
`Date.parse` instead of `Ember.Date.parse`.

#### Date Prototype Extension

###### until: 3.0.0
###### id: ds.date.parse-deprecate

In previous versions of Ember Data, the native `Date.parse` function was
replaced with `Ember.Date.parse`, a [progressive enhancement for ISO
8601](https://github.com/csnover/js-iso8601) support in browsers that do not
support it (Safari 5-, IE 8-, Firefox 3.6-). Since these browser versions are no
longer supported by Ember or Ember data, this behavior has been deprecated.

To clear this deprecation, you should disable Ember Data's `Date` prototype
extension.

With Ember >= v2.7.0, disable the prototype extension for `Date`:

```javascript
// config/environment.js

ENV = {
  EmberENV: {
    EXTEND_PROTOTYPES: {
      Date: false
    }
  }
}
```

With Ember < v2.7.0, values must be provided for all prototype extensions:

```javascript
// config/environment.js

var ENV = {
  EmberENV: {
    EXTEND_PROTOTYPES: {
      Array: true,
      Date: false,
      Function: true,
      String: true
    }
  }
};
```

If you're not sure which prototype extensions your app already has enabled, you
can check `EmberENV.EXTEND_PROTOTYPES` in your browser's JavaScript console
while your app is running.

See [Disabling Prototype
Extensions](https://guides.emberjs.com/v2.10.0/configuring-ember/disabling-prototype-extensions/#toc_strings)
for more information about how Ember uses prototype extensions.
