---
title: Deprecations for v1.x
layout: deprecations
responsive: true
---

## Deprecations Added in Ember 1.x

What follows is a list of deprecations introduced to Ember.js during the 1.x
cycle.

For more information on deprecations in Ember, see the [main deprecations page]
(/deprecations).

### Deprecations Added in 1.7

#### Observing container views like arrays.

ContainerViews have been observable as arrays, where the items in
the array are childViews. This introduces complexity into container
views despite the feature being a rarely used one.

<a id="toc_deprecate-ember-deferredmixin-and-ember-deferred"></a>
#### Ember.DeferredMixin and Ember.Deferred.

`Ember.DeferredMixin` and `Ember.Deferred` have been deprecated in favor
of using `RSVP.Promise`s.

<a id="toc_deprecate-code-then-code-on-ember-application"></a>
#### `.then` on Ember.Application.

As part of the `Ember.DeferredMixin` deprecation, using `.then` on an
Ember.Application instance itself has been deprecated.

You can use the `ready` hook or initializers to defer/advance readiness
instead.

### Deprecations Added in 1.8

#### Global lookup of views

Previous to Ember 1.8, views would commonly be fetched from the global
scope:

```handlebars
{{view App.SomeView}}
{{each item in items itemViewClass=App.SomeView}}
```

Since Ember 1.8, views are more appropriately resolved on the application
via strings:

```handlebars
{{view "some"}}
{{each item in items itemViewClass="some"}}
```

They may also be fetched via a binding:

```handlebars
{{view view.someViewViaTheCurrentView}}
{{each itemViewClass=someViewViaAControllerProperty}}
```

In general, it is recommended that your Ember application avoid accessing
globals from a template.

##### New usage of Ember.Select

Most of Ember's provided views are already accessed via helpers. For example,
the [Ember.TextField](/api/classes/Ember.TextField.html) view is used via the
[input helper](/api/classes/Ember.Handlebars.helpers.html#method_input).

The [Ember.Select](/api/classes/Ember.Select.html) view has not been upgraded to
have a helper. Instead, it was suggested that you call it via the global
class name:

```handlebars
{{view Ember.Select content=manyItems}}
```

Since this lookup is now deprecated, the select view has been registered
on an application as `select`. The new usage is:

```handlebars
{{view "select" content=manyItems}}
```

See the updated [Ember.Select](/api/classes/Ember.Select.html) documentation
and the [built-in views guide](/guides/views/built-in-views) for more details
and examples.

##### Ember.js libraries and plugins

If the code triggering this deprecation is being fired from a library, that
library may need to update its suggested usage.

One solution for such a library is to provide mixins instead of classes:

```js
// usage is {{view "list"}}
var App.ListView = Ember.View.extend(ListView);
```

A more advanced solution is to use an initializer to register the plugin's
views on the application:

```js
// usage is {{view "list"}}
Ember.Application.initializer({
  name: 'list-view',
  initialize: function(container, application) {
    container.register('view:list', ListView);
  }
});
```

More details on how to register an Ember.js framework component are available
in the [initializer API documentation](/api/classes/Ember.Application.html#toc_initializers)
and the [dependency injection guide](/guides/understanding-ember/dependency-injection-and-service-lookup).

#### Hash Location Paths Without Leading Slashes.

Prior to this release, if you were using `location: 'hash'` (which is the default), you were able to link to a route with a `location.hash` that didn't contain the expected leading forward slash. e.g. `#foo` instead of the correct `#/foo`. Very few, if any, should be impacted by this since the router always produces the correct form.

Doing so is ambiguous because you may also be trying to link to an element on the page whose id matches `<div id="foo">` and it also erroneously will create an extra history state if a user clicks on something that transitions to that route again, since it will change `location.hash === '#/foo'`.

This ability will be removed quickly to allow us to mimic the browser's behavior of scrolling the page to an element whose id matches, but in our case doing so after the transition ends and everything is rendered. Once this feature is added, you'll be able to link to id's even with doubled up hashes: `#/foo#some-id` as well as the expected `#some-id`.

### Deprecations Added in 1.9

#### More Consistent Handlebars Scope

In Ember 1.9, the `each` and `with` helpers come in two flavors: a "context-switching" flavor and a "named-parameter" flavor.

```handlebars
{{#each post in posts}}
  {{!-- the context in here is the same as the outside context,
        and `post` references the current iteration --}}
{{/each}}

{{#each posts}}
  {{!-- the context in here has shifted to the individual post.
        the outer context is no longer accessible --}}
{{/each}}

{{#with post as otherPost}}
  {{!-- the context in here is the same as the outside context }}
{{/with}}

{{#with post}}
  {{!-- the context in here has shifted to the post.
        the outer context is no longer accessible --}}
{{/with}}
```

This has proven to be one of the more confusing parts of the Ember templating system. It is also not clear to
beginners which to use, and when they choose the context-shifting form, they lose access to values in the outer
context that may be important.

Because the helper itself offers no clue about the context-shifting behavior, it is easy (even for more experienced
Ember developers) to get confused when skimming a template about which object a value refers to.

The context-shifting forms of `#each` and `#with` have been deprecated in favor of the named-parameter forms. In Ember 1.12, the `in` and `as` syntax are further deprecated in favor of block params syntax. See the [deprecation notes for in](/deprecations/v1.x/#toc_code-in-code-syntax-for-code-each-code) and [deprecation notes for as](/deprecations/v1.x/#toc_code-in-code-syntax-for-code-each-code).

##### Transition Plan

To transition your code to the new syntax, you can change templates that look like this:

```handlebars
{{#each people}}
  <p>{{firstName}} {{lastName}}</p>
  <p>{{address}}</p>
{{/each}}
```

with:

```handlebars
{{#each person in people}}
  <p>{{person.firstName}} {{person.lastName}}</p>
  <p>{{person.address}}</p>
{{/each}}
```

In preparation for further work on HTMLBars, the context switching form of `{{each}}` is deprecated. This is mostly a "mechanical" refactor and dramatically
simplifies how to think about the context in your templates. This change should be entirely mechanical.

In prior versions you may have done one of the following:

```handlebars
<ul>
  {{#each}}
    <li>{{name}}</li>
  {{/each}}
</ul>
```

```handlebars
<ul>
  {{#each people}}
    <li>{{name}}</li>
  {{/each}}
</ul>
```

You should now be using:

```handlebars
<ul>
  {{#each person in this}}
    <li>{{person.name}}</li>
  {{/each}}
</ul>
```

```handlebars
<ul>
  {{#each person in people}}
    <li>{{person.name}}</li>
  {{/each}}
</ul>
```

### Deprecations Added in 1.11

#### ObjectController

Experienced Ember users have enjoyed the use of proxying behavior in
the `Ember.ObjectController` class since 1.0. However, this behavior
will be removed in Ember 2.0 as the framework migrates to routable components.

New users hit three road bumps when learning about the object controller pattern.

* Given a certain model, which of the three controller options should I be using?
* Which controller is generated by the framework if I do not specify one?
* When using an object controller, why should the `this` context not be passed
  to actions if it has the properties of my model?

For these reasons, the [Road to Ember 2.0 RFC](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/15)
listed object controllers as a concept to be removed from the framework.

To migrate from an explicitly defined object controller, first convert
the class definition to inherit from `Ember.Controller`. For example:

```js
import Ember from "ember";

// Change:
export default Ember.ObjectController.extend({
// To:
export default Ember.Controller.extend({

// ...
```

Next update any use of `{{modelPropertyName}}` in templates with `{{model.modelPropertyName}}`.
You should also review any computed property dependent keys, observer keys, and `get` and `set`
statements on the route and controller. An example of how to make this migration can
be found [in this PR to the Ghost project](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost/pull/4748).

If a controller is not explicitly defined, but instead is being auto-generated
by the framework, it will only throw a deprecation message if the proxying
behavior is being used.

Added in [PR #10062](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/10062).

<a id="toc_deprecate-access-to-instances-in-initializers"></a>
#### Access to Instances in Initializers

Previously, initializers had access to an object that allowed them to
both register new classes and get instances of those classes.

If you have an initializer that gets instances of a class, you need to
change it to use an instance initializer.

Change code that looks like this:

```js
App.initializer({
  name: "clock",

  initialize: function(container, application) {
    application.register("clock:main", Clock);
    var clock = container.lookup("clock:main");
    clock.setStartTime(Date.now());
  }
});
```

To:

```js
App.initializer({
  name: "clock",

  initialize: function(registry, application) {
    application.register("clock:main", Clock);
  }
});

App.instanceInitializer({
  name: "clock",

  initialize: function(instance) {
    var clock = instance.container.lookup("clock:main");
    clock.setStartTime(Date.now());
  }
});
```

Added in [PR #10256](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/10256).

For more information, see [the instance initializer deprecation
guide](../instance-initializers).

### Warnings Added in 1.11

#### Binding Style Attributes
<a id="toc_warning-when-binding-style-attributes"></a>

Content in Handlebars templates is automatically HTML-escaped to help
developers prevent inadvertently introducing cross-site scripting (XSS)
vulnerabilities into their applications.  If you want to display trusted
content as HTML, you can use a `SafeString`, a special string that tells Ember
that the content should be displayed without escaping.

While this works great for HTML, there are some cases where you may bind user
data that the browser interprets as CSS, not HTML. For example, you may bind
the `style` attribute of an element:

```handlebars
<div style={{myStyle}}></div>
```

Handlebars only escapes HTML, not CSS, so this may introduce a potential XSS
vulnerability into your application if a malicious user is able to provide data
used in the `myStyle` property.

Starting in Ember 1.11, you will receive a warning if you attempt to bind the
`style` attribute of an element. Once you have verified that the content being
displayed is trusted and properly escaped, you can disable the warning by
making the content a `SafeString`. For example:

```js
  myStyle: Ember.computed('color', function() {
    /* Note: You must implement #escapeCSS. */
    var color = escapeCSS(this.get('color'));
    return Ember.String.htmlSafe("color: " + color);
  })
```

Make sure you don't put quotes around the sanitized string, `myStyle`, when you
bound it in the template. This would prevent Ember from seeing it as safe.

You can learn more about `SafeString`s and writing code that prevents XSS
attacks by reading the [Writing
Helpers](http://emberjs.com/guides/templates/writing-helpers/) guide.

### Deprecations Added in 1.12

#### `in` syntax for `{{each}}`

The `in` syntax is used to name an iterated value with `{{each}}`. Block
params, introduced Ember 1.10, obsoletes the `in` syntax.

Each helpers should be updated to use block params. For example this helper:

```handlebars
{{#each foo in bar}}
```

Can be converted as follows:

```handlebars
{{#each bar as |foo|}}
```
For "itemController" :

```handlebars
{{#each foo in bar itemController="abc"}}
```
Can be converted as follows:

```handlebars
{{#each bar itemController="abc" as |foo|}}
```

<a id="toc_code-as-code-sytnax-for-code-with-code"></a>
#### `as` syntax for `{{with}}`

Renaming a value using `{{with}}` has been possible using the `as` syntax. Block params,
introduces in Ember 1.10, obsolete the `as` syntax.

With helpers should be updated to use block params. For example this helper:

```handlebars
{{#with foo as bar}}
```

Can be converted as follows:

```handlebars
{{#with foo as |bar|}}
```

<a id="toc_deprecate-using-the-same-function-as-getter-and-setter-in-computed-properties"></a>
#### Computed Properties With a Shared Getter And Setter

Ember.js 1.12 introduces an improved syntax for computed properties with
a setter. Previously, computed properties with a setter implemented that
setter by inspecting the number of arguments passed to the computed
property's descriptor.

For example, this computed property splits a full name into two
parts when set:

```js
  fullName: Ember.computed("firstName", "lastName", function(key, newName) {
    if (arguments.length > 1) {
      var parts = newName.split(" ");
      this.setProperties({ firstName: parts[0], lastName: parts[1] });
      return newName;
    } else {
      return this.get("firstName") + " " + this.get("lastName");
    }
  });
```

These uses should be converted to use the new discrete getter and setter
syntax introduced in 1.12:

```js
  fullName: Ember.computed("firstName", "lastName", {
    get: function() {
      return this.get("firstName") + " " + this.get("lastName");
    },
    set: function(key, newName) {
      var parts = newName.split(" ");
      this.setProperties({ firstName: parts[0], lastName: parts[1] });
      return newName;
    }
  });
```

For further reading, review the [RFC](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/blob/master/text/0011-improved-cp-syntax.md) describing this feature and the [pull request of the initial implementation](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/9527).

### Deprecations Added in 1.13

Ember.js 1.13 is the last minor release of Ember 1.x before 2.0. Consequently,
it has a rather large number of notable deprecations.

#### Ember.create

`Ember.create` is deprecated in favor for `Object.create`. For more information
regarding `Object.create`, please
[read the MDN documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/create).

Please change this:

```js
const doug = Ember.create({
  firstName: 'Doug'
});
```

to

```js
const doug = Object.create({
  firstName: 'Doug'
});
```

#### Ember.keys

`Ember.keys` is deprecated in favor for `Object.keys`. For more information
regarding `Object.keys`, please
[read the MDN documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/keys).

```js
const food = Ember.keys({
  yellow: 'banana',
  green: 'pickle'
});
```

to

```js
const food = Object.keys({
  yellow: 'banana',
  green: 'pickle'
});
```

#### Ember.oneWay

`Ember.oneWay` is deprecated in favor for `Ember.computed.oneWay`. Please
change all instances of `Ember.oneWay` from:

```js
let User = Ember.Object.extend({
  firstName: null,
  nickName: Ember.oneWay('firstName')
});
```

to

```js
let User = Ember.Object.extend({
  firstName: null,
  nickName: Ember.computed.oneWay('firstName')
});
```

#### Ember.View

Ember 1.x encouraged a Model-View-Controller-Route architecture. Since then,
the web has consolidated around a Model-Component-Route pattern for web
development that Ember 2.0 also embraces.

Views are removed from the Ember 2.0 API. However a single release is likely
insufficient for large apps to upgrade their entire codebase away from routable
views, and consequently Ember is providing extended support for views via the
[ember-legacy-views](https://github.com/emberjs/ember-legacy-views) addon.
This addon will remain compatible with Ember until v2.4 of the framework
is released.

Along with the deprecation of `Ember.View`, the `Ember.CoreView` class is also
deprecated. If you were using this class, please migrate to `Ember.Component`.

##### Migrating away from the view helper

In most cases Ember views can be replaced with a component. For example
this view and usage:

```app/templates/show-menu.hbs
{{view.title}}
```

```app/views/show-menu.js
import Ember from "ember";

// Usage: {{view "show-menu"}}
export default Ember.View.extend({
  templateName: 'some-menu',
  title: 'My Menu'
});
```

Can be replaced with this component:

```app/templates/components/show-menu.hbs
{{title}}
```

```app/components/show-menu.js
import Ember from "ember";

// Usage: {{show-menu}}
export default Ember.Component.extend({
  title: 'My Menu'
});
```

Note that a component is always its own context in a template. A view's template
may have had access to other variables that were present where it was called,
such as a `controller`. A component template will always be isolated, and
if data is needed it should be passed upon invocation. For example:

```handlebars
{{show-menu options=controller.menuOptions}}
```

##### Differences in yielded blocks

Some notable differences exist between yielded view blocks and yielded component
blocks. A view could be used this way:

```app/views/reverse-name.js
import Ember from "ember";

export default Ember.View.extend({
  reversedName: Ember.computed('name', function() {
    return this.get('name').split("").reverse().join("");
  })
});
```

```handlebars
{{#view "reverse-name" name=controller.name}}
  {{view.reversedName}}
{{/view}}
```

Components introduced block params. This concept achieves data passing
without the confusion over what `{{view}}` refers to. For example:

```app/components/reverse-name.js
import Ember from "ember";

export default Ember.Component.extend({
  reversedName: Ember.computed('name', function() {
    return this.get('name').split("").reverse().join("");
  })
});
```

```app/templates/components/reverse-name.hbs
{{yield reversedName}}
```

```handlebars
{{#reverse-name name=controller.name as |reversedName|}}
  {{reversedName}}
{{/reverse-name}}
```

Just as passing values to a component allow access to those values in the
isolated template of that component, yielding block params allow for values
from the component to be passed to the location the component was called at.

##### Routable Views

When a template for a given route is rendered, if there is a view with the
same name that view will also be used. For example this view is attached
to the rendered route template:

```app/router.js
import Ember from "ember";

export default Ember.Router.map(function() {
  this.route('about');
});
```

```app/views/about.js
import Ember from "ember";

export default Ember.View.extend({
  classNameBindings: ['controller.isActive:active']
});
```

There are only two reasons a view may be used for a route.

  * To set attribute bindings
  * To attach event handlers

You should migrate away from routed views. For example to attach
bindings an element in the template is sufficient:

```app/router.js
import Ember from "ember";

export default Ember.Router.map(function() {
  this.route('about');
});
```

```app/templates/about.hbs
<div class="{{if isActive 'active'}}">
  <!-- something something -->
</div>
```

If attaching events or sharing DOM is necessary, consider a component:

```app/router.js
import Ember from "ember";

export default Ember.Router.map(function() {
  this.route('about');
});
```

```app/templates/about.hbs
{{#active-layout isActive=isActive}}
  <!-- something something -->
{{/active-layout}}
```

```app/components/active-layout.js
import Ember from "ember";

export default Ember.Component.extend({
  classNameBindings: ['isActive:active'],
  click() {
    // Handle click
  }
});
```

##### view and controller template keywords

View and controller keywords provided a way to access the view or controller
backing a template, even across scopes that you might expect to be isolated. In
many ways their behavior is emergent, and generally is poorly designed.

Accessing data via `{{view.someProp}}` or `{{controller.thisThing}}` can
nearly always be replaced by proper use of data passing and block params. See
the guide on [differences in yielded blocks](http://emberjs.com/deprecations/v1.x#toc_differences-in-yielded-blocks)
for a complete example of using block params over the `{{view}}` keyword.


##### `view` and `viewClass` arguments to `{{outlet}}`

Since the View API is deprecated starting in 1.13, providing the `view` or `viewClass` argument to the `{{outlet}}`
helper is likewise deprecated in favor of migrating to component-based approaches, as explained earlier in this
section.

#### Ember.LinkView

As a consequence of the deprecation of `Ember.View`, many internal views have
been ported to component. `Ember.LinkView`, the class that backs the
`{{link-to}}` helper, have been ported to `Ember.LinkComponent`.

Most uses of `Ember.LinkView` can be directly ported to the `Ember.LinkComponent`
class.

#### Ember.Select

Using the `Ember.Select` global and its view helper form (`{{view 'select'}}`)
is deprecated. `Ember.Select` in Ember 1.x is implemented in a legacy coding
style that uses patterns such as observers and two-way data binding that
can cause pathological performance problems and provide an experience that
is not consistent with idiomatic Ember 2.0 development.

Legacy support of `Ember.Select` will be provided via the [ember-legacy-views](https://github.com/emberjs/ember-legacy-views) addon.

Ember 2.0 provides several new features that make it much more straightforward
to implement &lt;select&gt; tag functionality via the
data-down, actions-up paradigm in one's codebase.
For example, to create a component that displays a prompt and a list of
dropdown options, the following code could be used:

```app/templates/components/my-select.hbs
<select {{action 'change' on='change'}}>
  {{#each content key="@index" as |item|}}
    <option value="{{item}}" selected={{is-equal item selectedValue}}>
      {{item}}
    </option>
  {{/each}}
</select>
```

```app/components/my-select.js
import Ember from "ember";

export default Ember.Component.extend({
  content: null,
  selectedValue: null,

  didInitAttrs(attrs) {
    this._super(...arguments);
    var content = this.get('content');

    if (!content) {
      this.set('content', []);
    }
  },

  actions: {
    change() {
      const changeAction = this.get('action');
      const selectedEl = this.$('select')[0];
      const selectedIndex = selectedEl.selectedIndex;
      const content = this.get('content');
      const selectedValue = content[selectedIndex];

      this.set('selectedValue', selectedValue);
      changeAction(selectedValue);
    }
  }
});
```

```app/helpers/is-equal.js
// is-equal helper is necessary to determine which option is currently selected.
import Ember from "ember";

export default Ember.Helper.helper(function([leftSide, rightSide]) {
  return leftSide === rightSide;
});
```

This component could be used in a template by supplying it an array of strings
as `content` and an action to call when the user makes a selection as `change`:

```app/templates/application.hbs
The currently selected item: {{mySelectedItem}}.

{{! myItems is an array of strings: ['first', 'second', 'third',...] }}
{{! This uses the `action` and `mut` helpers to pass in an action that
    will update the (outer scope) `mySelectedItem` property with the user's
    selection. }}
{{my-select content=myItems action=(action (mut mySelectedItem))}}
```

A more complete example of a `select` component that mimics many features of the
deprecated `Ember.Select` is [available in this jsbin](http://emberjs.jsbin.com/fotuqa).

Here is an [example jsbin showing usage of the select tag directly in a template without a component](http://emberjs.jsbin.com/zezapu).

There are many [Ember-CLI addons that provide select-like functionality](http://emberobserver.com/categories/select).
[emberx-select](http://emberobserver.com/addons/emberx-select) in particular
aims to provide a select component based on the native html select. Alternative
`select` component implementations can be iterated upon in addons to identify
best practices and perhaps moved into an official Ember 2.x implementation in
the future.

#### Ember.ContainerView

`Ember.ContainerView` is deprecated as a consequence of the deprecation of `Ember.View`.

Legacy support of `Ember.ContainerView` will be provided via the [ember-legacy-views](https://github.com/emberjs/ember-legacy-views) addon.

##### Migrating away from `Ember.ContainerView`

In most cases container view can be replaced using the `{{each}}` helper in combination with the `{{component}}` helper.

```app/components/component-container.js
import Ember from 'ember';

export default Ember.Component.extend({
  classNames: ['the-container'],
  childComponents: ['a-component', 'b-component']
})
```

```app/templates/components/component-container.hbs
{{#each childComponents as |childComponent|}}
  {{component childComponent}}
{{/each}}
```

#### Ember.CollectionView

`Ember.CollectionView` is deprecated as a consequence of the deprecation of `Ember.View`.

Legacy support of `Ember.CollectionView` will be provided via the [ember-legacy-views](https://github.com/emberjs/ember-legacy-views) addon.

##### Migrating away from `Ember.CollectionView`

In most cases collection view can be replaced using the `{{each}}` helper in combination with the `{{component}}` helper.

To be able to programmatically decide which component to use for an item, you can use a `Ember.Helper`

```app/helpers/animal-component.js
import Ember from 'ember';

export default Ember.Helper.extend({
  compute: function(params, hash) {
    var type = params[0];
    return type + '-component';
  }
});
```

Then if you have these two components:

```app/templates/components/dog-component.hbs
{{animal.name}} is a dog!
```

```app/templates/components/cat-component.hbs
{{animal.name}} is a cat!
```

Then you can render your different animals like this:

```app/controllers/animals.js
import Ember from 'ember';

export default Ember.Controller.extend({
  animals: [
    { type: 'cat', name: 'Buttons' },
    { type: 'dog', name: 'Fido'}
  ]
});
```

```app/templates/animals.hbs
<ul>
{{#each animals as |animal|}}
  <li>
    {{component (animal-component animal.type) animal=animal}}
  </li>
{{else}}
  You have no animals.
{{/each}}
</ul>
```

You can [view and manipulate this example on jsbin](http://emberjs.jsbin.com/qegikoliri/1/edit?html,js,output)

#### Set `positionalParams` as a static property on the class

Setting `positionalParams` within `.extend` is deprecated. It has to be set as a static property on the class itself (`.reopenClass`).

Please change this:

```javascript
import Ember from 'ember';

export default Ember.Component.extend({
  positionalParams: [ 'a', 'b' ]
});
```

to this:

```javascript
import Ember from 'ember';

var Thing = Ember.Component.extend();
Thing.reopenClass({
  positionalParams: [ 'a', 'b' ]
});

```

#### Ember.ReduceComputed / Ember.ArrayComputed

These two little monsters served us well for a long time. They provided semantics that allowed to
perform in-place modifications of an existing array instead of replacing the entire array like the
regular `map/reduce` methods in javascript do, which was necessary to avoid expensive repaintings when
rendering lists with the `{{each}}` helper.

But now that with the new glimmer engine you can generate a entirely new array and let glimmer handle
the diffing for you they've become an unnecessary and overcomplicated abstraction that adds no value
over the native counterparts.

They will be extracted as an ember addon in case you need to keep using them, but the recommendation now is to
just use the native array methods or those in libraries like Underscore/Lodash.

#### Ember.ReduceComputedProperty / Ember.ArrayComputedProperty

In addition to `Ember.ReduceComputed` and `Ember.ArrayComputed` you were able to add a property function call, making use of
the ReduceComputedProperty and ArrayComputedProperty classes.
This usage is also deprecated.
For an example, consider a counter component that displays a total sum of values in an array.
Using `Ember.ReduceComputedProperty` would show the following:

```js
totalCount: Ember.reduceComputed({
  initialValue = 0;
  addedItem(totalValue, newValue) {
    return totalValue + newValue;
  },
  removedItem(totalValue, newValue) {
    return totalValue - newValue;
  }
}).property('values')
```

Now that these APIs are deprecated, use the native JavaScript reduce along with the [Ember.computed family of functions](http://emberjs.com/api/classes/Ember.computed.html):

```js
totalCount: Ember.computed('values.[]', function() {
  return this.get('values').reduce((previousValue, currentValue) => {
    return previousValue + currentValue;
  })
})
```

#### Modifying a Property within `didInsertElement`

Because of changes in the way Ember renders components in 1.13, setting properties within an overridden `didInsertElement` method
will result in a deprecation warning.

In many cases you can move your logic earlier in the component lifecycle by implementing the `didReceiveAttrs` hook, one of
[the new hooks introduced in 1.13](http://emberjs.com/blog/2015/06/12/ember-1-13-0-released.html#toc_component-lifecycle-hooks).

```js
  didReceiveAttrs() {
    this._super(...arguments);
    this.set('myValue', value);
  }
```

It may even be possible, if your value is constant, to move the change to `init`, where the value can only be set once.

```js
  init() {
    this._super(...arguments);
    this.set('myValue', myValue);
  }
```

Don't see a `set` in your `didInsertElement`? It may be in `didUpdate` or `didRender`. Due to a bug, these report the wrong method name.

Still can't find it?
- One of your computed properties may be calling `set`.
- An observer is being triggered.
- One of your child components may be setting one of its attributes and it is being propagated upward to this component.

In rare cases, you may be measuring the DOM rendered and want to set an attribute based on that. In this case, it is ok to cause a second render:

```js
  didInsertElement() {
    this._super(...arguments);
    run.schedule('afterRender', this, this.measureAndSet);
  },

  measureAndSet() {
    this.set('height', this.element.children.length * 30);
  }
```

However, doing so is relatively slow and should be done as a last resort.

#### beforeObserver

Before observers are deprecated due to the negative performance implications they have for Ember internals and applications.

Typically they were used to have access to the old value of a property when it's about to change, but you can get same functionality in an even more efficient way with just a few lines of code:

```js
function fooObserver(obj){
  var newFoo = obj.get('foo');
  if (obj._oldFoo !== newFoo) {
    // do your stuff here
    obj._oldFoo = newFoo;
  }
}
addObserver(obj, 'foo', fooObserver);
fooObserver(obj); // Optionally call the observer immediately
```

The related functions `Ember.addBeforeObserver`, `Ember.removeBeforeObserver`, `Ember.beforeObserversFor`, and `Function#beforeObserver`
are deprecated too.

#### Ember.immediateObserver

`Ember.immediateObserver` is deprecated in favor of `Ember.observer`. Please change all instances of `Ember.immediateObserver` from:

```javascript
Ember.Object.extend({
  valueObserver: Ember.immediateObserver('value', function() {
  })
});
```
to

```javascript
Ember.Object.extend({
  valueObserver: Ember.observer('value', function() {
  })
});
```

#### ArrayController

Just like `Ember.ObjectController`, `Ember.ArrayController` will be removed in
Ember 2.0 for the same reasons mentioned in [1.11's ObjectController
deprecation](http://emberjs.com/deprecations/v1.x/#toc_objectcontroller).

To migrate from an explicitly defined array controller, first convert
the class definition to inherit from `Ember.Controller`. For example:

```js
import Ember from "ember";

// Change:
export default Ember.ArrayController.extend({
// To:
export default Ember.Controller.extend({

// ...
```

Next update any use of `{{modelPropertyName}}` in templates with `{{model.modelPropertyName}}`.
You should also review any computed property dependent keys, observer keys, and `get` and `set`
statements on the route and controller. An example of how to make this migration can
be found [in this PR to the Ghost project](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost/pull/5468).

Opposite to [1.11's ObjectController deprecation](http://emberjs.com/deprecations/v1.x/#toc_objectcontroller),
if a controller is not explicitly defined, but instead is being auto-generated
by the framework, it will **not** throw a deprecation message even if the
proxying behavior is being used.

Added in [PR #11476](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/11476).

#### SortableMixin

Along with `Ember.ArrayController`, `Ember.SortableMixin` will be removed in Ember 2.0.

You can migrate away from using `Ember.SortableMixin` by using `Ember.computed.sort`. Using this example:

```js
const SongsController = Ember.ArrayController.extend(Ember.SortableMixin, {
  model: null,
  sortProperties: ['trackNumber'],
  sortAscending: false
});

let songsController = SongsController.create({ songs: songList });
```

You can transition to using `Ember.computed.sort` like this:

```js
const SongsController = Ember.Controller.extend({
  model: null,
  sortedSongs: Ember.computed.sort('model', 'songSorting'),
  songSorting: ['trackNumber:desc']
});

let songsController = SongsController.create({ songs: songList });
```

You can [read more about `Ember.computed.sort` in the Ember API documentation](http://emberjs.com/api/classes/Ember.computed.html#method_sort)

Legacy support of `Ember.SortableMixin` will be provided via the [ember-legacy-controllers](https://github.com/emberjs/ember-legacy-controllers) addon.

#### RenderBuffer

With the change to the rendering process in Glimmer, the RenderBuffer is no longer used by Ember
and will be removed. The class was originally private, and any reference to it should be removed.

#### Using `@guid` and `@item` as key in `{{each}}`

As of 1.13.2 you should not use `key='@guid'` or `key='@item'` in the `{{each}}` helper. It is
[documented in 1.13](http://guides.emberjs.com/v1.13.0/templates/displaying-a-list-of-items/#toc_specifying-keys)
that you can use these special values to uniquely identify each array entry so that the view code could
more efficiently re-render the display of the list.

This process was simplified as part of a [bugfix](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/11461),
where the key now implicitly defaults to `@identity`, which will pick either a guid or an item identifier based on type
of each array entry. Therefore, providing the key attribute is no longer required for re-render optimizations.

Applications should replace instances of:

```handlebars
{{#each people key='@guid' as |person|}}
...
{{/each}}
```

and

```handlebars
{{#each people key='@item' as |person|}}
...
{{/each}}
```

with

```handlebars
{{#each people as |person|}}
...
{{/each}}
```

#### Controller.needs

`needs` for controllers will be removed in Ember 2.0. You can migrate away from this using `Ember.inject.controller`

Lets say you have a `post` controller like this:

```javascript
import Ember from 'ember';

export default Ember.Controller.extend({
  needs: ['comments'],
  newComments: Ember.computed.alias('controllers.comments.newest')
});
```

You can upgrade to `Ember.inject.controller` like this:

```javascript
import Ember from 'ember';

export default Ember.Controller.extend({
  comments: Ember.inject.controller(),
  newComments: Ember.computed.alias('comments.newest')
});
```

You can [read more about `Ember.inject.controller` in the Ember API documentation](http://emberjs.com/api/classes/Ember.inject.html#method_controller)

#### Block and multi-argument unbound helper

The unbound helper is mostly a legacy API in Ember, although it is not being
removed in 2.0. It was almost exclusively used to manage performance issues
which are well addressed in Ember 1.13's new rendering engine.

The first form being deprecated is the block form of unbound. For example:

```handlebars
{{#unbound if someState}}
  Show this
{{/unbound}}
```

Instead, replace this form with a nested helper:

```handlebars
{{#if (unbound someState)}}
  Show this
{{/if}}
```

The second form being deprecated is the non-nested helper lookup. For example:

```handlebars
{{unbound some-custom-helper withArg anotherArg}}
```

Replace this form with nested helper call:

```handlebars
{{unbound (some-custom-helper withArg anotherArg)}}
```

Or make all inputs to the helper unbound:

```handlebars
{{some-custom-helper (unbound withArg) (unbound anotherArg)}}
```

#### Ember Freezable

The Freezable Mixin has been deprecated because the spec has been added to
the javascript core.

```javascript
Contact = Ember.Object.extend(Ember.Freezable, {
  firstName: null,
  lastName: null,

  // swaps the names
  swapNames: function() {
    if (this.get('isFrozen')) throw Ember.FROZEN_ERROR;
    var tmp = this.get('firstName');
    this.set('firstName', this.get('lastName'));
    this.set('lastName', tmp);
    return this;
  }

});

c = Contact.create({ firstName: "John", lastName: "Doe" });
c.swapNames();  // returns c
c.freeze();
c.swapNames();  // EXCEPTION
```

Replace code above with this:

```javascript
Contact = Ember.Object.extend({
  firstName: null,
  lastName: null,

  // swaps the names
  swapNames: function() {
    if (Object.isFrozen(this)) throw Ember.FROZEN_ERROR;
    var tmp = this.get('firstName');
    this.set('firstName', this.get('lastName'));
    this.set('lastName', tmp);
    return this;
  }

});

c = Contact.create({ firstName: "John", lastName: "Doe" });
c.swapNames();  // returns c
Object.freeze(c);
c.swapNames();  // EXCEPTION
```

#### Ember.EnumerableUtils

`EnumerableUtils` has been deprecated in favor of native implementations. You can consult the
[JavaScript Array documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array)
to find suitable replacements for `EnumerableUtils` functionality.
If the native JavaScript array object does not provide a suitable equivalent for your needs, you might also want to checkout
third party utility libraries like [lodash](https://lodash.com/), or [underscore](underscorejs.org/).

#### Copyable.frozenCopy

Just as the `Freezable` mixin is deprecated in favor of functionality in
core JavaScript, the `frozenCopy` method of the Copyable mixin is also
deprecated in favor of [`Object.freeze()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/freeze).

Replace the following code:

```javascript
const Obj = Ember.Object.extend(Freezable, Copyable, {
  copy() {
    return Obj.create();
  }
});

const frozenCopy = Obj.create().frozenCopy();
frozenCopy.isFrozen(); // => true
frozenCopy.set('foo', 'baz'); // => throws TypeError
```

with:

```javascript
const a = Ember.Object.create();
Object.isFrozen(a); // => false
Object.freeze(a);
Object.isFrozen(a); // => true
a.set('foo', 'baz'); // => throws TypeError
```
#### Using `/` for namespace in the `{{render}}` helper

When using the render helper, its possible to specify a context within a nested directory structure.  Prior to 1.13, it
was acceptable to separate nested directories using slashes `/`, but this is now deprecated, as Ember has
settled on using dot notation for namespacing.

For example, a developer might have a controller at `app/controllers/blog/posts.js` and is using the render helper to
render that controller context within another template.

Instead of using `{{render 'blog/posts'}}`, use `{{render 'blog.posts'}}`.  That will render the template associated with
`app/controllers/blog/posts.js` in your directory structure.

#### Non-Standard Ways of Calling `Ember.set` and `Ember.get`

Ember is deprecating calls to `get` and `set` made in non-standard ways.  Below are examples
of the calls that are now deprecated:

```javascript
// referencing properties with globals
Ember.set(null, 'App.foo', bar);
Ember.set('App.foo', bar);
Ember.get(null, 'App.foo');
Ember.get('App.foo');

// referencing properties with 'this'
Ember.set(obj, 'this.foo', bar);
Ember.get(obj, 'this.foo');

// providing a null context
Ember.set(null, 'foo', bar);
Ember.get(null, 'foo');

// providing a non-string property
Ember.set(obj, 42, bar);
Ember.get(obj, 42);
```

#### Reversed Ember.observer Arguments

A little known feature of the observer function allowed for the arguments to be
listed in the opposite order, with function first:

```javascript
Ember.observer(function() {
  // React to observer firing here
}, 'property1', 'property2')
```

This syntax was deprecated in Ember 1.13.5. The above code sample should be
replaced with the standard syntax that lists the observed properties, then
the function as the last argument:

```javascript
Ember.observer('property1', 'property2', function() {
  // React to observer firing here
})
```

#### Ember CreateWithMixins

`Ember.Object.createWithMixins` method has been deprecated. Instead call `Ember.Object.create` or `Ember.Object.extend`.

```javascript
var obj = Ember.Object.createWithMixins({

});
```

Replace with code above with:

```javascript
var obj = Ember.Object.extend({

}).create();
```

#### bind-attr

Ember 1.11 introduced new syntax for using dynamic content in attributes.

In 1.10 your only option was to use the `bind-attr` helper:

```handlebars
<div {{bind-attr title=post.popup}}></div>
```

Ember 1.11 made it possible to intuitively represent dynamic content in attributes as you would expect:

```handlebars
<div title="{{post.popup}}"></div>
```

This makes it possible to express a number of concepts directly in the template that previously were awkward to represent and required computer properties, and could even require `itemController`.

##### Dasherized boolean values

Ember 1.11's attribute binding syntax no longer supports dasherizing for boolean values. For example:

```app/components/user-profile.js
export default Ember.Component.extend({
  isActiveUser: true
});
```

```app/templates/components/user-profile.hbs
<div {{bind-attr class="isActiveUser"}}>
</div>
```

Should be replaced with:

```app/templates/components/user-profile.hbs
<div class="{{if isActiveUser 'is-active-user'}}">
</div>
```

##### Legacy `bind-attr`

Ember 1.13 deprecated `bind-attr` in favor of the new syntax.

To aid in the migration, you can use the [legacy-bind-attr plugin](https://github.com/emberjs/legacy-bind-attr) to restore this behavior in Ember 2.0 and silence the deprecation warning.

#### Using `this.get('template')`

Prior to 1.13, developers had to check for the existance of the internal `template` property to determine the existance of a yielded block.
This is being deprecated in favor of using the new [`hasBlock`](http://emberjs.com/api/classes/Ember.Component.html#property_hasBlock)
property within your templates.

##### Determining if a block has been provided from JavaScript

Currently the `hasBlock` property is not made available from the JavaScript component object,
so there is no clean alternative for checking whether a block has been passed.
See the [JavaScript `hasBlock` RFC](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/102) for discussion on making this information
available in the future, as well as possible workarounds.

#### Ember.computed.any

`Ember.computed.any` is deprecated in favor of `Ember.computed.or`. This change is required because the computed value is the first value ( like || ) rather than a boolean value ( like Array.prototype.any ). For example:

```javascript
let Hamster = Ember.Object.extend({
  hasClothes: Ember.computed.any('hat', 'shirt')
});
```
The above code will be changed to

```javascript
let Hamster = Ember.Object.extend({
  hasClothes: Ember.computed.or('hat', 'shirt')
});
```

#### View and Controller options on the `{{each}}` helper

The options `itemView`, `itemViewClass`, `tagName`, `emptyView`,
`emptyViewClass` and `itemController` on the `{{each}}` helper have been deprecated.

These options were added when controllers were more prominent, and the
component story was less fully fleshed out. In Ember 1.13+, using these options
triggers a less performant compatibility mode.

The usage of all the above mentioned options should be replaced with components.

##### An example

```handlebars
{{each view.comments itemController="comment"
                     itemView="commentView"
                     emptyView="noCommentsView"
                     tagName="ul"}}
```

Can be replaced with:

```handlebars
<ul>
  {{#each comments as |comment|}}
    {{post-comment comment=comment}}
  {{else}}
    {{no-comments}}
  {{/each}}
</ul>
```

##### Breaking the example down

The `comment` controller and `commentView` view have been refactored into the
`{{post-comment}}` component.

The `noCommentsView` has been refactored in to the `{{no-comments}}` component.

Instead of the `itemController="comment"` and `itemView="commentView"` we use
the newly created `{{post-comment}}` component.

Instead of the `emptyView="noCommentsView"` we use the `{{no-comments}}`
component.

We replaced `tagName="ul"` part by just surrounding the `{{each}}` block with
`<ul>` tags.

#### Using the `{{with}}` Helper with the `controller` option

Another option deprecated due to the de-emphasis of controllers is the controller
option used with the `{{with}}` helper.  In prior versions it was possible to
specify a controller when using `{{with}}`, which would use an instance of the
specified controller as the context within the block.

```javascript
{{#with item.posts controller="myposts"}}
  {{!- numPosts fetched from the controller instance "myposts" }}
  There are {{numPosts}} posts.
{{with}
```

Similar to the
[deprecated `{{each}}` helper controller options](http://emberjs.com/deprecations/v1.x#toc_view-and-controller-options-on-the-code-each-code-helper)
, this approach triggers less performant compatibility code and is deprecated in
favor of using local properties or components.

#####Using local properties

```javascript
{{#with item.posts as |myPosts|}}
  There are {{myPosts.length}} posts.
{{with}}
```

#####Using a component

```javascript
{{! prints the number of posts (if available) }}
{{post-status posts=item.posts}}
```

#### Handlebars / HTMLBars helpers

All the various ways to create helpers on the Handlebars and HTMLBars namespace
have been deprecated in favor of the
[`Ember.Helper`](http://emberjs.com/api/classes/Ember.Helper.html) class and it's
[`Ember.Helper.helper`](http://emberjs.com/api/classes/Ember.Helper.html#method_helper)
function. The `makeViewHelper` method has been deprecated in favor of just using
an `Ember.Component`.

##### `makeViewHelper`

If you use `viewHelper` you should refactor the view class and template into
a component with the same name as the view helper you registered.

##### `makeBoundHelper`, `registerBoundHelper`, `helper`, `registerHelper`

If you have for example:

```app/helpers/foo-bar.js
export default Ember.HTMLBars.makeBoundHelper(function(firstArg, secondArg, options) {
  let { hash } = options;
  // helper code
});
```

or

```javascript
Ember.Handlebars.registerHelper('foo-bar', function(firstArg, secondArg, options) {
  let { hash } = options;
  // helper code
});
```

you can replace those with:

```javascript
// app/helpers/foo-bar.js
export default Ember.Helper.helper(function([firstArg, secondArg], hash) {
  // helper code
});
```

#### Using `TrackedArray` or `SubArray`

`TrackedArray` and `SubArray` were internal classes used as implementation
details of `ArrayComputed`.  `ArrayComputed` is deprecated to be removed
in version 2.0.0.  As a result, these 2 private classes will be removed as
well.

#### Using `@each` as a leaf node in a dependent key
Using `@each` at the end of a computed key is deprecated and will not work in
Ember 2.0

```javascript
invalid: Ember.computed('myObject.@each', function () {
  //no longer valid for monitoring changes to arrays
});
```

When defining dependent keys for computed properties, ember 2.0+ will treat
`@each` and `[]` differently.

`@each` will monitor specific properties within an array of objects.

```javascript
eachProp: Ember.computed('myObj.posts.@each.title', function () {
  //fired whenever one of the blog post titles is changed.
});
```

`[]` will monitor mutations to the array.

```javascript
arrProp: Ember.computed('myObj.posts.[]', function () {
  //fired whenever a blog post is added or removed
});
```

#### Overriding `render` When Extending a Component or View.

The `render` method on components and views should not be overridden and will
go away in Ember 2.x.  Modifications to Ember rendering should be made by
overriding Ember's new
[component lifecycle hooks](http://emberjs.com/blog/2015/06/12/ember-1-13-0-released.html#toc_component-lifecycle-hooks)
, introduced in version 1.13.
