---
title: Deprecations for v2.x
layout: deprecations
responsive: true
---

## Deprecations Added in Ember 2.x

What follows is a list of deprecations introduced to Ember.js during the 2.x
cycle.

For more information on deprecations in Ember, see the [main deprecations page]
(/deprecations).

### Deprecations Added in 2.0

#### Ember.String.fmt

##### until: 3.0.0
##### id: ember-string-utils.fmt

`Ember.String.fmt` was designed at a time when interpolating values in a JavaScript
string was cumbersome. With template strings, it has become pratical to do it, and
they are recommended over `Ember.String.fmt`.

To use the examples from the documentation, you should update your code from:

```javascript
let firstName = 'John';
let lastName = 'Doe';

"Hello %@ %@".fmt('John', 'Doe');     // "Hello John Doe"
"Hello %@2, %@1".fmt('John', 'Doe');  // "Hello Doe, John"
```

To the following:

```javascript
let firstName = 'John';
let lastName = 'Doe';

`Hello ${firstName} ${lastName}`  // "Hello John Doe"
`Hello ${lastName}, ${firstName}`  // "Hello Doe, John"
```

#### Link-to's `currentWhen`

##### until: 3.0.0
##### id: ember-routing-view.deprecated-current-when

When developers wanted to customize in what route a `{{link-to}}` should be considered "active" they
could pass it using `currentWhen`.

```handlebars
{{#link-to 'item' currentWhen='index'}}
```

Now `currentWhen` is deprecated in favour of the hyphenated `current-when`, with the exact
same semantics:

```handlebars
{{#link-to 'item' current-when='index'}}
```

### Deprecations Added in 2.1

#### Initializer Arity

###### until: 3.0.0
###### id: ember-application.app-initializer-initialize-arguments

In prior versions of Ember initializers have taken two arguments (generally labeled as
`container` and `application`). Starting with Ember 2.1 providing two arguments to an
`initializer` will trigger a deprecation.

The following initializer for Ember 2.0 will trigger a deprecation:

```javascript
export function initialize(container, application) {
  application.inject('route', 'service:session');
}

export default {
  name: 'inject-session',
  initialize: initialize
}
```

To clear the deprecation, remove the first argument (`container` in the above example):

```javascript
export function initialize(application) {
  application.inject('route', 'service:session');
}

export default {
  name: 'inject-session',
  initialize: initialize
}
```

In some cases an addon might need to support both versions of Ember with the same initializer,
one way to do this without triggering a deprecation would be the following (using the same
example as above):

```javascript
export function initialize() {
  let application = arguments[1] || arguments[0];
  application.inject('route', 'service:session');
}

export default {
  name: 'inject-session',
  initialize: initialize
}
```

#### Ember.Application#registry / Ember.ApplicationInstance#registry

##### until: 3.0.0
##### id: ember-application.app-instance-registry

When the container and registry were split, the registry was added to `Ember.Application` instances (provided to
initializers as the first argument in 2.1) and `Ember.ApplicationInstance` instances (provided to instance initializers
as the first argument). Unfortunately, this was done without making it clear that the `.registry` property on
`Ember.Application` instances was private. This lead quite a few addons and applications to directly use the registry.

During the 2.1 cycle a new feature (`ember-registry-container-reform`) was enabled to provide more
public API's to access the `registry` functionality (without exposing all of the private internals).

The following list can be used to migrate from `app.registry.*` usage to the new public API's:

* `app.registry.resolve` -> `app.resolveRegistration`
* `app.registry.register` -> `app.register`
* `app.registry.unregister` -> `app.unregister`
* `app.registry.has` -> `app.hasRegistration`
* `app.registry.option` -> `app.registerOption`
* `app.registry.options` -> `app.registerOptions`
* `app.registry.getOptions` -> `app.registeredOptions`
* `app.registry.optionsForType` -> `app.registerOptionsForType`
* `app.registry.getOptionsForType` -> `app.registeredOptionsForType`
* `app.registry.injection` -> `app.inject`

#### Ember.ApplicationInstance#container

##### until: 3.0.0
##### id: ember-application.app-instance-container

When instance initializers were added, using `appInstance.container.lookup` was suggested in lieu of using the first argument
to initializers. Unfortunately, the `container` system has always been private and the previous initializer deprecation led
users down the wrong path.

During the 2.1 cycle a new feature (`ember-registry-container-reform`) was enabled to provide more
public API's for accessing the container for looking up instances without exposing all of the private internals.

Please refactor from using `appInstance.container.lookup` to `appInstance.lookup`.

Before:

```app/initializers/preload-store.js
export function initialize(appInstance) {
  let store = appInstance.container.lookup('service:store');

  store.pushPayload(`<payload here>`);
}

export default {
  name: 'preload-store',
  initialize: initialize
}
```

After:

```app/instance-initializers/preload-store.js
export function initialize(appInstance) {
  let store = appInstance.lookup('service:store');

  store.pushPayload(`<payload here>`);
}

export default {
  name: 'preload-store',
  initialize: initialize
}
```

#### Ember debug function options

##### until: 3.0.0
##### id: ember-debug.deprecate-options-missing, ember-debug.deprecate-id-missing, ember-debug.deprecate-until-missing, ember-debug.warn-options-missing, ember-debug.warn-id-missing

Starting in Ember 2.1 various debug functions now require a third argument (commonly called `options`).

`id` is required by all methods listed below, and the deprecation related methods also require an `until` property.

* `Ember.deprecate`
* `Ember.deprecateFunc`
* `Ember.computed.deprecatingAlias`
* `Ember.warn`

The `id` property is intended to allow runtime debug handlers to uniquely identify the source, and the `until` property is used
to indicate the future version when the deprecated behavior will no longer exist.

The goal of these changes is to allow tools like
[ember-cli-deprecation-workflow](https://github.com/mixonic/ember-cli-deprecation-workflow) to make managing
these deprecations and warnings much easier (by matching on the `id` instead of the full deprecation/warn message).

#### Ember.Component#defaultLayout

##### until: 3.0.0
##### id: ember-views.component.defaultLayout

Specifying a `defaultLayout` to a component is deprecated in favor of specifying `layout` directly. `defaultLayout` was
often used in order to allow inheriting components to fallback to their parents `defaultLayout` if a custom `layout` was
not provided. Due to the way a components layout is looked up naturally, this is true when using `layout` properties in
both locations. Changing the `layout` detection process allows initial render speed (with many components) to be
improved pretty significantly.

Before:

```javascript
// Ember < 2.1
import layout from '../templates/some-thing-lol';

export default Ember.Component.extend({
  defaultLayout: layout
});
```

After:

```javascript
// Ember 2.1 and later
import layout from '../templates/some-thing-lol';

export default Ember.Component.extend({
  layout: layout
});
```

#### Ember.Component#currentState

##### until: 2.3.0
##### id: ember-view.current-state

The `currentState` property on `Ember.Component` instances is a private property that Ember uses
internally to deal with the various states a component can be in (in DOM, pre-render, destroying, etc). Unfortunately,
this removes a pretty common term (`currentState` might be used for many things in a user-land component).

In Ember 2.1 the internal `.currentState` property has been moved to `_currentState` to avoid conflicts.

Please keep in mind that `.currentState` / `._currentState` is still private and should not be used/relied upon
outside of Ember internals.

### Deprecations Added in 2.2

#### Function as test in Ember.deprecate, Ember.warn, Ember.assert

##### until: 2.5.0
##### id: ember-debug.deprecate-test-as-function
##### Deprecated behavior

Calling `Ember.deprecate`, `Ember.warn` or `Ember.assert` with a function as test argument is deprecated.

You can no longer pass arguments of type `function` to these methods. Following calls will trigger deprecations:

```javascript
const message = 'Test message.';
const options = { id: 'test', until: '3.0.0' };

// passing function
Ember.deprecate(message, function() {
  return true;
}, options);

const myConstructor = {}.constructor;

// passing constructor (also a function)
Ember.warn(message, myConstructor, options);

// passing function with double arrow syntax
Ember.assert(message, () => true, options);
```

[Demo.](http://ember-twiddle.com/34d36b9121e017d2388f)

##### Refactoring

You have 3 options to refactor second argument from `function` to `boolean`:

1. Use [IIFE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immediately-invoked_function_expression).
2. Use `!!Constructor` for constructors.
3. Pass `boolean` directly instead of wrapping it in function.

Example:

``` javascript
// ... message, options omitted for brevity

// passing IIFE (1)
Ember.deprecate(message, (function() {
	return true;
})(), options);

const myConstructor = {}.constructor;

// passing !!constructor (2)
Ember.warn(message, !!myConstructor, options);

// passing boolean directly (3)
Ember.assert(message, true, options);
```

[Demo.](http://ember-twiddle.com/ed90d0c7812914f09a3f)

In a future version functions will be treated as truthy values instead of being executed.

### Deprecations added in 2.3

#### Injected container access

##### until: 3.0.0
##### id: ember-application.injected-container

`this.container` has been private API since at least Ember 1.0.0. Unfortunately, there was not a public API available
to use as an alternative.  In the Ember 2.1 cycle a number of public API's were added to instance initializers
that allowed access to the container and registry (see [here](http://emberjs.com/api/classes/ContainerProxyMixin.html)
and [here](http://emberjs.com/api/classes/RegistryProxyMixin.html) for details of the public API's), but this new public
API surface was not added to individual instances that were using `this.container` directly.

Ember 2.3 now provides a public API for usage from within any instances that were instantiated from the container.

This refactor is relatively straight forward for applications, but still leaves a few gaps for addons that want to function
without deprecation on all versions while still using the newer paradigms. [ember-getowner-polyfill](https://github.com/rwjblue/ember-getowner-polyfill)
was created for this exact reason.

Note that the `getOwner` API is natively available in Ember versions 2.3 and up, so you don't need to install a polyfill. Use it like you would use any other API, as in the `After:` example.

Before:

```js
// Ember < 2.3
import Ember from 'ember';

export default Ember.Helper.extend({
  init() {
    this._super(...arguments);

    this.customThing = this.container.lookup('custom:thing');
  }
});
```

After:

do an ember install of the polyfill.

```sh
ember install ember-getowner-polyfill
```

After it installs, use as follows:-

```js
// Ember < 2.3 needs the polyfill installed, Ember >= 2.3 available natively.
import Ember from 'ember';

export default Ember.Helper.extend({
  init() {
    this._super(...arguments);

    this.customThing = Ember.getOwner(this).lookup('custom:thing');
  }
});
```

### Deprecations Added in 2.4

#### {{#render}} helper with block

##### until: 2.4.0
##### id: ember-template-compiler.deprecate-render-block

The `{{render}}` helper was never intended to support a block form, but unfortunatley (mostly
due to various refactorings in 1.10 and 1.13) it started working in block form. Since this was
not properly engineered, there are a number of caveats (i.e. the `controller` and `target` values of
anything inside the block are incorrect) that prevent continued support.

Support the following forms will be removed after 2.4:

```handlebars
{{#render 'foo'}}
  <p>Stuff Here</p>
{{/render}}
```

```handlebars
{{#render 'foo' someModel}}
  <p>Stuff Here</p>
{{/render}}
```

### Deprecations Added in 2.6

#### Ember.Component#didInitAttrs

##### until: 3.0.0
##### id: ember-views.did-init-attrs

Using `didInitAttrs` is deprecated in favour of using `init`. When `init` is called the attrs sent in with the component will be
available after calling `this._super(...arguments)`

Given a htmlbars template like this:

```handlebars
{{my-component handle="@tomdale"}}
```

Before:

```js
export default Ember.Component.extend({
  didInitAttrs() {
    this._super(...arguments);
    this.get('handle'); // @tomdale
  }
});
```

After:

```js
export default Ember.Component.extend({
  init() {
    this._super(...arguments);
    this.get('handle'); // @tomdale
  }
});
```

#### Model param in `{{render` helper

##### until: 3.0.0
##### id: ember-template-compiler.deprecate-render-model

Using the model param in the `{{render` helper is deprecated in favor of using
components. Please refactor to a component and invoke thusly:

For example, if you had:

```handlebars
{{render 'foo-bar' someModel}}
```

```app/templates/foo-bar.hbs
<p>{{someProp}} template stuff here</p>
```

```app/controllers/foo-bar.js
export default Controller.extend({
  someProp: Ember.computed('model.yolo', function() {
    return this.get('model.yolo');
  })
});
```

Would be refactored to:

```handlebars
{{foo-bar model=someModel}}
```

```app/templates/components/foo-bar.hbs
<p>{{someProp}} template stuff here</p>
```

```app/components/foo-bar.js
export default Component.extend({
  someProp: Ember.computed('model.yolo', function() {
    return this.get('model.yolo');
  })
});
```

#### Legacy support addons

Ember provides addons [ember-legacy-views](https://github.com/emberjs/ember-legacy-views) and
[ember-legacy-controllers](https://github.com/emberjs/ember-legacy-controllers) that allow for projects to continue
using some legacy concepts in 2.x.
Beginning in 2.4, use of these addons is now deprecated.

See the deprecation guide sections on [removing views](http://emberjs.com/deprecations/v1.x/#toc_ember-view),
[`ArrayController`](http://emberjs.com/deprecations/v1.x/#toc_arraycontroller),
and [`ObjectController`](http://emberjs.com/deprecations/v1.x/#toc_objectcontroller)
for information on migration.

Once view and controller deprecations are removed, you can remove the addons with the command:
`npm uninstall --save-dev ember-legacy-views && npm uninstall ember-legacy-controllers`

### Deprecations Added in 2.7

#### Ember.Backburner

##### until: 2.8.0
##### id: ember-metal.ember-backburner

`Ember.Backburner` was private throughout the Ember 2.x series and will be
removed _after_ 2.8.

#### Ember.Binding

##### until: 3.0.0
##### id: ember-metal.binding

`Ember.Binding` has not been needed for some time and is deprecated in favor of
computed properties and services (depending on what you were binding to). It is
recommended that you take the following actions:

1. Refactor global bindings to services
2. Refactor `oneWay` bindings to `readOnly` computed properties
3. Refactor all other bindings to `alias` computed properties

The [guide on services]
(https://guides.emberjs.com/v2.5.0/applications/services/) is a good place
to start for creating and consuming services to replace your global bindings.
In general though, you will replace your global with a service and consume it
like this:

```js
export default Ember.Component.extend({
  // will load the service in file /app/services/cool-service.js
  coolService: Ember.inject.service()
});
```

This would replace a binding that may have looked like this:

```js
export default Ember.Component.extend({
  boringObjectBinding: 'MyApp.boringObject'
});
```

Refactoring local bindings to computed properties can be achieved with
less work:

If you had this:

```js
export default Ember.Component.extend({
  thingContainer: …,
  thingOneBinding: Ember.Binding.oneWay('thingContainer.thingOne'),
  thingTwoBinding: 'thingContainer.thingTwo'
});
```

You could change it to this:

```js
export default Ember.Component.extend({
  thingContainer: …,
  thingOne: Ember.computed.readOnly('thingContainer.thingOne'),
  thingTwo: Ember.computed.alias('thingContainer.thingTwo')
});
```

See the [guide on computed properties]
(https://guides.emberjs.com/v2.5.0/object-model/computed-properties/) for
further reading.

### Deprecations Added in 2.8

#### Use Ember.String.htmlSafe over Ember.Handlebars.SafeString

##### until: 3.0.0
##### id: ember-htmlbars.ember-handlebars-safestring

Creating safe strings. Before:

```js
import Ember from 'ember';
const { computed } = Ember;

export default Ember.Component.extend({
  myString: computed(function(){
    return new Ember.Handlebars.SafeString(someString);
  });
})
```

After:

```js
import Ember from 'ember';
const { computed } = Ember;

export default Ember.Component.extend({
  myString: computed(function(){
    return Ember.String.htmlSafe(someString);
  });
)};
```

Detecting safe strings. Before:

```js
import Ember from 'ember';

export default Ember.Component.extend({
  actions: {
    save() {
      let myString = this.get('myString');
      if (myString instanceof Ember.Handlebars.SafeString) {
        // ...
      }
    }
  }
});
```

After:

```js
import Ember from 'ember';

export default Ember.Component.extend({
  actions: {
    save() {
      let myString = this.get('myString');
      if (Ember.String.isHTMLSafe(myString)) {
        // ...
      }
    }
  }
});
```

If you're an addon maintainer, there is a polyfill for safe string detection ([ember-string-ishtmlsafe-polyfill](https://github.com/workmanw/ember-string-ishtmlsafe-polyfill))
that will help maintain backwards compatibility. Additionally, it's worth noting that `Ember.String.htmlSafe`
is supported back to pre-1.0, so there should be no concerns of backwards compatibility there.

#### Enumerable#contains

##### until: 3.0.0
##### id: ember-runtime.enumerable-contains

The `Enumerable#contains` and `Array#contains` methods were deprecated in favor of `Enumerable#includes` and `Array#includes`
to stay in line with ES standards. See [RFC](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/blob/master/text/0136-contains-to-includes.md) for details.

`contains` and `includes` have similar behaviors. A notable exception is how `NaN` values are handled.
`contains` uses [Strict equality comparison algorithm](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-strict-equality-comparison)
for testing inclusion while `includes` uses [SameValueZero algorithm](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-samevaluezero).

Before:

```js
var arr = ['a', 'b', 'c', NaN, undefined, null];

arr.contains('b');        // true
arr.contains('d');        // false
arr.contains(NaN);        // false
arr.contains(null);       // false
arr.contains(undefined);  // false
```

After:

```js
var arr = ['a', 'b', 'c', NaN, undefined, null];

arr.includes('b');        // true
arr.includes('d');        // false
arr.includes(NaN);        // true
arr.includes(null);       // true
arr.includes(undefined);  // true
```

`includes` also allows a second optional parameter `startAt` to specify the index at which to begin searching:

```js
var arr = ['a', 'b', 'c', NaN];

arr.includes('c', 2);   // true
arr.includes('c', -2);  // true
```

Note that the second `startAt` parameter is only available for `Ember.Array` because `Ember.Enumerable` does not rely on index-ordered access.

`Enumerable#without` and `MutableEnumerable#addObject` use now internally `includes` instead of `contains`. This leads to some minor breaking changes:

Before:

```js
var arr = ['a', 'b'];

arr.addObject(NaN);       // ['a', 'b', NaN]
arr.addObject(NaN);       // ['a', 'b', NaN, NaN]
arr.without(NaN);         // ['a', 'b', NaN, NaN]
```

After:

```js
var arr = ['a', 'b'];

arr.addObject(NaN);       // ['a', 'b', NaN]
arr.addObject(NaN);       // ['a', 'b', NaN]
arr.without(NaN);         // ['a', 'b']
```

Addon authors should use [ember-runtime-enumerable-includes-polyfill](https://github.com/rwjblue/ember-runtime-enumerable-includes-polyfill)
to fix the deprecation in a backwards-compatible way.

Added in [PR #13553](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/13553).

### Deprecations Added in 2.11

#### `renderToElement`

##### until: 2.12.0
##### id: ember-views.render-to-element

Using the `renderToElement` is deprecated in favor of `appendTo`.
Please refactor to use `appendTo`:

For example, if you had:

```js
component.renderToElement('div');
```

Would be refactored to:

```js
let element = document.createElement('div');
component.appendTo(element);
```

Note that both APIs are private, so no public API is being deprecated here.


#### `{{render` helper

##### until: 3.0.0
##### id: ember-template-compiler.deprecate-render

Using the `{{render` helper is deprecated in favor of using components.
Please refactor uses of this helper to components:

For example, if you had:

```handlebars
{{render 'my-sidebar'}}
```

```app/templates/my-sidebar.hbs
<p>template stuff here</p>
```

```app/controllers/my-sidebar.js
export default Ember.Controller.extend({
});
```

You would refactor to a component like so:

```handlebars
{{my-sidebar}}
```

```app/templates/components/my-sidebar.hbs
<p>template stuff here</p>
```

```app/components/my-sidebar.js
export default Ember.Component.extend({
});
```

Note that the render helper has several unique behaviors that may require further refactoring work during migration to a component.

- When using the render helper with no model argument, the controller instance is a singleton. For example the same controller instance is shared between `{{render 'post'}}`, any other helper usage of `{{render 'post'}}`, a route template named post, and dependency injections using `Ember.inject.service('post')`.
- When sendAction is called in a rendered controller, or when `{{action` is used in a render helper template, the bubbling target for those actions is the router and current active route. With components, those same actions would target only the component instance without bubbling.


#### Rendering into a {{render}} helper that resolves to an {{outlet}}.

##### until: 3.0.0
##### id: ember-routing.top-level-render-helper

Before named outlets were introduced to Ember the render helper was used to declare slots for `this.render` in routes. This usage is not common in modern, idiomatic applications and is deprecated. In general, the pattern of named outlets or named render helpers is discouraged. Instead use of [ember-elsewhere](https://github.com/ef4/ember-elsewhere) or another DOM-redirection library should better serve these use cases.

For example this code uses the render helper as a target for a special sidebar present on the index route. The special sidebar is in a template named `index-sidebar`:

```app/templates/application.hbs
<div class="sidebar">{{render 'sidebar'}}</div>
<div class="main">{{outlet}}</div>
```

```app/templates/index.hbs
Index Content
```

```app/routes/index.js
App.IndexRoute = Ember.Route.extend({
  renderTemplate() {
    this._super(...arguments);
    this.render('index-sidebar', { into: 'sidebar' });
  },
  actions: {
    willTransition() {
      this.disconnectOutlet({
        parentView: 'application',
        outlet: 'sidebar'
      });
    }
  }
});
```

It should be refactored to use [ember-elsewhere](https://github.com/ef4/ember-elsewhere). The sidebar content must be implemented as a component, in this case named `index-sidebar`. The logic previously used in the route file can be removed. The refactored example:

```app/templates/application.hbs
<div class="sidebar">{{from-elsewhere name='sidebar'}}</div>
<div class="main">{{outlet}}</div>
```

```app/templates/index.hbs
{{to-elsewhere named='sidebar' send=(component 'index-sidebar')}}
Index Content
```

For more informations of how to use `ember-elsewhere`, please visit the official
documentation [here](https://github.com/ef4/ember-elsewhere#ember-elsewhere).

### Deprecations Added in 2.12

#### `Ember.K`

##### until: 3.0.0
##### id: ember-metal.ember-k

Using `Ember.K` is deprecated in favor of defining a function inline. See [RFC #178](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/blob/master/text/0178-deprecate-ember-k.md).

You can use the addon [ember-watson](https://github.com/abuiles/ember-watson#remove-usages-of-emberk) to automate the removal of `Ember.K` from your application.

Example object:

```js
Ember.Object.extend({
  someFun: Ember.K
});
```

Command:

```sh
ember watson:remove-ember-k --empty
```

The result will be:

```js
Ember.Object.extend({
  someFun() {}
});
```

If for some reason your app depends on the ability to chain `Ember.K` invocations, you can use the flag `--return-this`. It will replace `Ember.K` with a function that returns `this`.

#### Migrating from _lookupFactory to factoryFor

##### until: 2.13.0
##### id: container-lookupFactory

The private API method `_lookupFactory` is deprecated and replaced by `factoryFor` in public API. This API will return the original base class registered into or resolved by the container and a `create` function to generate a dependency-injected instance.

Addon creators and maintainers can use [ember-factory-for-polyfill](https://github.com/rwjblue/ember-factory-for-polyfill) for addons supporting versions 2.3+, or [ember-getowner-polyfill](https://github.com/rwjblue/ember-getowner-polyfill) for 1.10+.

Before:

```js
export default Component.extend(
  init() {
    this._super(...arguments);
    let Factory = getOwner(this)._lookupFactory('logger:main');
    this.logger = Factory.create({ level: 'low' });
  }
});
```

After:

```js
export default Component.extend(
  init() {
    this._super(...arguments);
    let factory = getOwner(this).factoryFor('logger:main');
    this.logger = factory.create({ level: 'low' });
  }
});
```

Any methods or properties of the factory can be accessed through the `class` property when using `factoryFor`.

```js
let factory = owner.factoryFor('widget:slow');
let klass = factory.class;
klass.hasSpeed('slow'); // true
```

#### Arguments in Component Lifecycle Hooks

##### until: 2.13.0
##### id: ember-views.lifecycle-hook-arguments

Previously, it was possible for component lifecycle hooks `didInitAttrs`, `didReceiveAttrs`, and `didUpdateAttrs` to receive arguments. However, this functionality was part of private API. Using the arguments is harmful to component performance, so they will trigger a deprecation. Alternative approaches for all three hooks are below:

##### `didInitAttrs` arguments

Since this lifecycle hook is [already deprecated](http://emberjs.com/deprecations/v2.x/#toc_ember-component-didinitattrs), we suggest taking this chance to address two deprecations at the same time.

Imagine you have a component that stores a timestamp when it is initialized.

Before:

```javascript
Ember.Component.extend({
  didInitAttrs({ attrs }) {
    this.set('initialTimestamp', attrs.timestamp);
  }
});
```

After:

```javascript
Ember.Component.extend({
  init() {
    this._super(...arguments);

    this.set('initialTimestamp', this.get('timestamp'));
  }
});
```
##### `didReceiveAttrs` and `didUpdateAttrs` arguments

This example for `didReceiveAttrs` below also applies to `didUpdateAttrs`, a similar hook that only runs on re-renders. Let's say you want to animate a thermometer widget showing the change between today's high and low temperatures.

Before:

```javascript
Ember.Component.extend({
  didReceiveAttrs({ oldAttrs, newAttrs }) {
    if (oldAttrs.temp !== newAttrs.temp) {
      this.thermometer.move({ from: oldAttrs.temp, to: newAttrs.temp });
    }
  }
});
```

After:

```javascript
Ember.Component.extend({
  didReceiveAttrs() {
    let oldTemp = this.get('_oldTemp');
    let newTemp = this.get('temp');

    if (oldTemp && oldTemp !== newTemp) {
      this.thermometer.move({ from: oldTemp, to: newTemp });
    }
    this.set('_oldTemp', newTemp);
  }
});
```

Additionally, [ember-diff-attrs](https://github.com/workmanw/ember-diff-attrs) is an addon that spun out of the discussions on the RFC. It provides a dry way to track attribute changes for this lifecycle hook.

### Deprecations Added in 2.13

#### Ember.Router.router renamed to Ember.Router._routerMicrolib

##### until: 2.16.0
##### id: ember-router.router

The private `router` property of the `Ember.Router` instance (commonly found as `this.router` in `Ember.Route` instances or via router:main in the container)
has been renamed to `_routerMicrolib` to identify it as `router.js`, the microlib used within `Ember.Router`.

Addon and application developers that are using the internal `router` property of `Ember.Router` should replace those usages with `Ember.Router._routerMicrolib`.

This example demonstrates a common use case for `.router`.

Before:

```javascript
export default Ember.Service.extend({
  getRouteNameFromUrl (url) {
    const router = getContainer(this).lookup('router:main');
    const routes = router.router.recognizer.recognize(url);

    if (routes && routes.length) {
      return routes[routes.length-1].handler;
    }
  }
});
```

After:

```javascript
export default Ember.Service.extend({
  getRouteNameFromUrl (url) {
    const router = getContainer(this).lookup('router:main');
    const routes = router._routerMicrolib.recognizer.recognize(url);

    if (routes && routes.length) {
      return routes[routes.length-1].handler;
    }
  }
});
```

#### Ember.Map, Ember.MapWithDefault, and Ember.OrderedSet are deprecated

##### until: 2.16.0
##### id: ember-metal.map

The private classes `Ember.Map`, `Ember.MapWithDefault`, and `Ember.OrderedSet`
are being deprecated and will be removed in a later version of Ember.

Developers using any of these classes should replace them by a custom
implementation.

### Deprecations Added in 2.14

#### Ember.MODEL\_FACTORY\_INJECTIONS removed

##### until: 2.17.0
##### id: ember-metal.model\_factory\_injections

The flag `Ember.MODEL_FACTORY_INJECTIONS` is no longer required, and can be
safely removed from your ember >= 2.13 application.

This flag was [added in 2013](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/commit/ffd9314620005c16e6cc05589a9e8b7ffc1da090) for Ember Data compatibility with the Dependency Injection (DI) system.
At the time, Ember's DI blurred the idea of a factory and a class which caused several issues,
including one that resulted in this flag being required.

Since then, both Ember and Ember Data have addressed the various issues which lead to this flag.
Most recently, Ember's DI system introduced the `factoryFor` API which separates factores and classes.
With this step, the flag in question no longer has any affect, and can be safely removed.

#### Custom eventManager deprecated

##### until: 2.17.0
##### id: ember-views.event-dispatcher.canDispatchToEventManager

`EventDispatcher` has long supported custom `eventManager`s containing their own
event dispatching rules to be defined on components. This feature was initially
added to allow components to differentiate between certain types of touch input,
however the [addon](https://github.com/emberjs-addons/ember-touch/) that originally
used this has long been deprecated.

If needed, an addon which allows for custom component `eventManager`s can be
created. Please comment on the [original RFC](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/194)
if you have a need for this in your app.

### Deprecations Added in 2.16

#### Controller#content alias

##### until: 2.17.0
##### id: ember-runtime.controller.content-alias

For historical reasons, `Controller`s have a private property named `content` that
aliases the `model` property.

With the introduction of this deprecation, if you wish to continue using `content`
in the controller without a deprecation warning, you will have to add an
explicit alias:

```javascript
import Controller from '@ember/controller';
import { alias } from '@ember/object/computed';

export default Controller {
  content: alias('model')
}
```

### Deprecations Added in 2.18

#### `targetObject`

##### until: 3.5.0
##### id: ember-runtime.using-targetObject

The `targetObject` property on `Component` was intended as a "write-only API", meaning that the user was supposed to define their own if they desired, but not read the default one. It was never intended for `this.get('targetObject')` to be used, so it is now deprecated. The recommendation is to use `target` instead.

### Ember 2 Legacy

Ember provides [ember-2-legacy](https://github.com/emberjs/ember-2-legacy) which is an addon to help
app with deprecations during the transition from the 2.x series to 3.x. This addon provides app owners more
time to upgrade off of the deprecations slated for removal in 3.0.0 and decouples that work from
upgrading to the 3.x series.

This addon will be supported until 3.4 at which point it will be deprecated.

Once you have removed all deprecations, you can remove the addon with the `npm uninstall ember-2-legacy` command.
