---
title: Ember 1.0 RC
author: Peter Wagenet
tags: Releases, 2013, Version 1.x, Router, Controller
responsive: true
---

Today at Ember Camp, we announced the release of Ember.js 1.0 RC1.

This release is all about fixing bugs from the `pre4` release, and
gets us that much closer to a final 1.0 release. Between this release
and the 1.0 final, we will mostly be focusing on stability and documentation.

If you discover any blocking bugs or undocumented areas, please file tickets at
the emberjs/ember.js repo on GitHub and consider helping out.

### Route Replacement

You can now transition to a new route without creating an entry in the history:

```js
// instead of this, which creates a history entry
router.transitionTo('index');

// do this
router.replaceWith('index');
```

In the `redirect` hook, you can just use `replaceWith` and Ember won't create
a history entry.

In a controller, you can use `replaceRoute` (instead of `transitionToRoute`)
to do the same thing.

### Item Controller

If you want every item in a `{{#each}}` to be wrapped in an `ObjectController`,
you can do so easily:

```handlebars
{{#each posts itemController="post"}}
  {{!-- `this` in here is each post wrapped in an App.PostController --}}
{{/each}}
```

### Register and Inject

Internally, Ember uses a "container" to instantiate your controllers and other
objects.

As of Ember 1.0 RC1, you can use `App.register` to override the default lookup
for controllers and other objects. For example:

```js
App.register('controller:post', Ember.ObjectController.extend());
```

In general, you should use the default naming conventions, which Ember will use
to find objects, but you can use this API for advanced usages.

Similarly, you can use `App.inject` to tell Ember to automatically inject
objects into other Ember objects.

```js
App.register('network:main', App.NetworkAdapter);
App.inject('controller', 'network', 'network:main');
```

This will create a single instance of `App.NetworkAdapter` and give it to every
controller created over the course of building your application. Internally,
Ember Data uses this API to give every controller the application's store:

### Router Activate and Deactivate

Currently, many people are using the undocumented and private `enter` and
`exit` hooks to run code whenever Ember activates a route handler or
deactivates it.

As of Ember 1.0 RC1, there are public hooks: `activate` and `deactivate`. Note
that the `activate` hook will run only when a route handler is activated for
the first time. If a route handler's context changes, the `setupController`
hook will run again, but not the `activate` hook.

### App.reset()

If you are trying to run integration tests with Ember, you might have noticed
that there is no good way to reset all of an application's state.

No more!

As of Ember 1.0 RC1, you can call `App.reset()` to destroy all objects created
for the application, and bring the application back to `/`.

### Big List of Changes

Since `.pre4`, we've added these features:

* Added the ability to replace the current route without adding a history
  entry, using `router.replaceWith`
* Added support for String literals in `{{action}}` and `{{linkTo}}` to
  differentiate between static String parameters and properties on the current
  context
* Allow redirection from routes that are not the final resting route
* Fix a bug where using named outlets would confuse where child templates should
  be rendered into
* Add `itemController`, which allows a `{{#each}}` to wrap each iterated element
  in a controller that can be used to store transient state
* Fix a bug involving {{else}} templates only working a single time
* Add `intersection` to `EnumerableUtils`
* Added `App.register` and `App.inject` to control the default application's
  dependency injection container
* Fixes regressions in jQuery 1.9 to address changes made to .attr and .prop
* Add support for `{{unbound helper}}` where `helper` is a custom helper
  registered via `Ember.Handlebars.registerBoundHelper`
* Added `Ember.debug` to print debug-level warnings and use it to print the
  current version of Ember and its dependencies on boot
* Fix a bug where changing the model property passed to `{{render}}` does not
  update the rendered template
* Added public `activate` and `deactivate` hooks in the router. If you were
  using the private `enter` and `exit` methods, please switch!
* Added `Application#reset` to help with integration tests
* Several fixes for the Ember Inspector
* Many bug and performance fixes

You can see the full changelog at [the official CHANGELOG][1].

[1]: https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/blob/master/CHANGELOG
