---
title: Ember 1.0 RC4 and Ember Data 0.13
author: Tom Dale
tags: Releases, Recent Posts
---

Today, we are pleased to announce two new releases:

* Ember.js 1.0 RC4
* Ember Data 0.13

This RC4 release of Ember puts us very close to the final 1.0 release.
If everything goes to plan, we anticipate one more possible RC release
before we're ready to put the "all done" stamp on it.

Ember Data 0.13 is the first official release of Ember Data. This should
make it easier for people to synchronize Ember.js and Ember Data
versions, and make reasoning about the upgrade process much easier.

### Ember.js 1.0 RC4

As we approach 1.0 final, our focus continues to be on bugfixes, performance, and
reliability.

#### BREAKING CHANGE: Controller/Model Setup

One of the roles of `Route` objects in an Ember application is to tell
controllers which model they should represent.

By default, the object that you return from a route's `model` hook is
set as the `model` property on the corresponding controller. So, for
example, if you have this route:

```js
App.PhotosRoute = Ember.Route.extend({
  model: function() {
    return App.Photo.find();
  }
});
```

The array returned from `model` would be set as the `model` property of
the `App.PhotosController`. This tells the controller that it should
present that model to its template.

What if you need to set up additional controllers, beyond the primary
controller associated with that route? In that case, you can implement
the `setupController` hook:

```js
App.PhotosRoute = Ember.Route.extend({
  model: function() {
    return App.Photo.find();
  },

  setupController: function(controller, model) {
    this.controllerFor('application').set('showingPhotos', true);
  }
});
```

This is all well and good, but what if you wanted to **prevent** a model
from being set on the `PhotosController` at all?

In RC3, *preventing this default behavior was impossible*. In RC4,
**implementing the `setupController` hook prevents the default behavior
from happening. This is a potentially breaking change.**

If your route implements the `setupController` hook *and* you want to
preserve default behavior, **make sure you call `_super()` from within
the hook**:

```js
App.PhotosRoute = Ember.Route.extend({
  model: function() {
    return App.Photo.find();
  },

  setupController: function(controller, model) {
    // Call _super for default behavior
    this._super(controller, model);
    this.controllerFor('application').set('showingPhotos', true);
  }
});
```

#### RSVP 2.0

Ember now embeds version 2.0 of
[RSVP.js](https://github.com/tildeio/rsvp.js), a microlibrary for
[Promises/A+ compatible
promises](http://promises-aplus.github.io/promises-spec/).

All of the Ember.js and Ember Data APIs that return promises use this
library to ensure compatible behavior.

A big, big thanks to Stefan Penner for all of his work on improving the
promises story across both Ember and Ember Data.

#### Run Loop Extracted to Backburner.js

Erik Bryn has extracted the run loop into the
[Backburner.js](https://github.com/ebryn/backburner.js) microlibrary,
which Ember now uses.

This will allow other frameworks and libraries that use
Backburner to benefit from using a deferred event queue, and hopefully
we can share our work to make the web platform faster for everyone.

#### Handlebars RC4 Compatibility

Ember.js RC4 is compatible with the latest release of Handlebars, which
is also at RC4.

#### Improved Route Redirection

Routes provide a `redirect` hook that allows them to conditionally redirect to
a different route. For example, you may redirect the user to a login
route if you detect that they do not have an authentication token saved.

Many improvements to the `redirect` hook have been made to make it more
reliable. Additionally, you can now implement this hook in the
`ApplicationRoute`, which previously would not work.

#### ember-testing Improvements

The `ember-testing` package, included in Ember.js, is the
officially-supported library for writing unit and integration tests for
Ember apps. Introduced in RC3, this has continued to be improved, with
many bug fixes and performance improvements landing in RC4.

#### `disabledWhen` {{linkTo}} Option

The `{{#linkTo}}` Handlebars helper now has a `disabledWhen` option that
can be bound to conditionally disable a link:

```handlebars
{{#linkTo 'upgradeAccount' disableWhen=isPremiumUser}}Upgrade
Account{{/linkTo}}
```

### Ember Data 0.13

In the past few months, Ember Data has stabilized dramatically. To
reflect this, we will be cutting regular releases like we do with
Ember.js.

#### API Revision Removal

Now that we are doing regular releases, the API revision check has been
removed. You no longer need to provide the API revision number when
defining your store:

```js
App.Store = DS.Store.extend({
  // Delete this!
  revision: 13
});
```

### Ember Data Future Plans

Our immediate goals for Ember Data are stabilization, bug fixes, and
documentation. There are only two major areas of improvement planned
before we beging promoting builds to prerelease and RC versions:

#### Promises

Currently, most Ember Data APIs return objects that also implement a
`then()` method, allowing them to be used interchangeably as either
models or promises.

While this flexibility was convenient, it unfortunately caused confusing
semantics. Specifically, because a resolved promise stays resolved,
operations like reloading became very confusing.

While not in this release, you should expect that future releases of
Ember Data will shift to an entirely promise-based API. This both
resolves the issues with confusing semantics as well as allows us to
implement some exciting features, like more powerful polymorphism.

#### Error Handling

We want to make error handling and dealing with client and server
conflicts rock solid. A [pull request from Paul Chavard](https://github.com/emberjs/data/pull/958)
is currently open and looks like a solid starting point for error
handling. You should see much more development on this in the near
future.
