---
title: Ember 1.0 RC2
author: Yehuda Katz
tags: Releases, 1, Controllers, 2013
responsive: true
---

Today, we're releasing the second Release Candidate of Ember 1.0.
As we said when we released RC1, the next few releases will be
about bugfixes and improvements, and should not have any breaking
changes.

### Namespace Lookup for Controllers

It is now possible to look up controllers that are included in a
namespace other than the main application namespace.

For example, when using the render helper:

```handlebars
{{render 'posts'}}
```

This will render the `posts` template with the controller `App.PostsController`, where `App` is the main application namespace.

If you want to use an alternative namespace, you can use a
`/`-separated path.

```handlebars
{{render 'blog/posts'}}
```

This will render the `blog/posts` template with the controller
`Blog.PostsController`.

### Using Render With Multiple Models

In RC1, you could use `{{render 'posts'}}` to render the `posts`
template using the app's instance of `App.PostsController`. Using
`render` in this way will always render the template using the same
singleton controller.

In RC2, we are adding the ability to render a template with a
particular model: `{{render 'post' post}}`. When you supply a model,
Ember.js will create a new instance of the `App.PostController` each
time it is used.

This allows you to use `{{render}}` in a loop:

```handlebars
{{#each post in posts}}
  {{render 'post' post}}
{{/each}}
```

### Unwrapping an `ObjectController`'s Model

When passing an `ObjectController` as a parameter to the `action`
or `linkTo` helpers, Ember now unwraps the underlying model and 
passes it through.

Most importantly, this allows you to add an `itemController` to
`{{#each}}` without affecting action handlers in your controller
or router.

If you have a template like this:

```posts.hbs
<ul>
{{#each controller itemController='postItem'}}
  <li><button {{action 'selectPost' this}}>{{name}}</button></li>
{{/each}}
</ul>
```

Your `App.PostsController` would look like this:

```javascript
App.PostsController = Ember.ArrayController.extend({
  needs: 'currentPost',

  selectPost: function(post) {
    // `post` here is an `App.Post`, not an
    // `App.PostItemController`
    this.set('controllers.currentPost.model', post);
  }
});
```

This should make using `itemController` less gotcha-prone.

### Support for jQuery 2.0

Ember 1.0 RC2 supports [jQuery 2.0][1].

This allows you to use a smaller, optimized build for newer browsers
that is fully compatible with Ember.

If you're targeting both older IE and modern browsers, you can use
the following snippet to get the best of both worlds:

```html
<!--[if lt IE 9]>
    <script src="jquery-1.9.1.js"></script>
<![endif]-->
<!--[if gte IE 9]><!-->
    <script src="jquery-2.0.0.js"></script>
<!--<![endif]-->
```

Because jQuery 1.9 and 2.0 are API-compatible, this strategy will
allow you to target the widest range of browsers, but ship a
smaller build for modern browsers.

The future is here!

[1]: http://blog.jquery.com/2013/03/01/jquery-2-0-beta-2-released/

### Changelog

The full [CHANGELOG][2] is available on Github, as always.

[2]: https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/blob/7e012d9e7f4c5e5b7ce6e60307aac7cd653df5b9/CHANGELOG#L1
