To define a component, create a template whose name starts with
`components/`. To define a new component `{{blog-post}}`, for example,
create a `components/blog-post` template.

If you are including your Handlebars templates inside an HTML file via
`<script>` tags, it would look like this:

```handlebars
<script type="text/x-handlebars" id="components/blog-post">
  <h1>Blog Post</h1>
  <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet.</p>
</script>
```

If you're using build tools, create a Handlebars file at
`templates/components/blog-post.handlebars`.

Having a template whose name starts with `components/` creates a
component of the same name. Given the above template, you can now use the
`{{blog-post}}` custom element:

```handlebars
<h1>My Blog</h1>
{{#each}}
  {{blog-post}}
{{/each}}
```

<a class="jsbin-embed" href="http://jsbin.com/ifuxey/1/embed?live,html">JS Bin</a><script src="http://static.jsbin.com/js/embed.js"></script>

Each component, under the hood, is backed by an element. By default,
Ember will use a `<div>` element to contain your component's template.
To learn how to change the element Ember uses for your component, see
[Customizing a Component's
Element](/guides/components/customizing-a-components-element).


### Defining a Component Subclass

Often times, your components will just encapsulate certain snippets of
Handlebars templates that you find yourself using over and over. In
those cases, you do not need to write any JavaScript at all. Just define
the Handlebars template as described above and use the component that is
created.

If you need to customize the behavior of the component, however, you'll
need to define a subclass of `Ember.Component`. For example, you would
need a custom subclass if you wanted to change a component's element,
respond to actions from the component's template, or manually make
changes to the component's element using JavaScript.

Ember knows which subclass powers a component based on its name. For
example, if you have a component called `blog-post`, you would create a
subclass called `App.BlogPostComponent`. If your component was called
`audio-player-controls`, the class name would be
`App.AudioPlayerControlsComponent`.

In other words, Ember will look for a class with the camelized name of
the component, followed by `Component`.

<table>
  <thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Component Name</th>
    <th>Component Class</th>
  </tr>
  </thead>
  <tr>
    <td><code>blog-post</code></td>
    <td><code>App.BlogPostComponent</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>audio-player-controls</code></td>
    <td><code>App.AudioPlayerControlsComponent</code></td>
  </tr>
</table>
